Plague doctor

You are a doctor who traveled to the ruins of a remote village to discover the reason behind its sudden abandonment.  

If you are reading this note sorry for the inconvenience, I am out of the house right now.  I will be back by the next day.  If you are in dire need of me, follow the path through the forest to my workshop and be sure to use the secret path to the left.  I have heard some unsettling noises come from the forest recently.

Many people from the town have come to me today wondering about bloody noses.  I reassured them that it was just their body trying to purify itself.  One even asked about an itch he couldn't scratch on inside his head, how am I supposed to respond to that.  I just told him to ignore it and it would eventually go away.

He came back again said his head itch got worse.  Is his head bigger?  That's impossible we both must be imagining something.  More bloody noses, I helped plug their noses to staunch the flow.

People keep coming to me to ask if I have seen any of the people now missing from town.  How would I know where these people are if I am in my workshop so often?

Many of the villagers seem to have a new disease.  Just how can I help them, balancing the four humors does not seem to be working.  They come back sicker, and closer to death.  Am I doing something wrong.

I figured it out, there is no disease this is all just a test from God.  We are being punished for our sins.

I found a body in the woods.  Well, a body is generous.  I found a lone skull in the woods, no skin attached at all.  Is this the work of some demon, or some sinister force?

There was something in the skull.  On top of the brain lay some sort of demon.  It was red, had multiple legs and was stuck to the brain.  I was unable to separate them without my knives.

I was unable to return to my house today, in the woods came these hideous noises.  Words cannot describe what I heard.  What I saw will stay with me until I die, this monster was feasting on what looked like a person.  Just what is happening in this town of ours.

I made a vile combination today, if it so much as touches a living being it produces a paralyzing agent.  Maybe with this I will be able to leave my workshop.

How does this spread?  How far has this disease reached?

Where is the king?  Does he care about his subjects?

Today I faced the monster, my concoction worked.  It seemed to only stun the beast for a few seconds, however that was all I needed to run.  It seemed like it was more focused on the corpses around it.  Why?

I have made many more concoctions, maybe one day I will repent for these sins.

The demon in the skull, it calls to the monster.  Alive but only to act as a signal for a feast.  I can use this, the beast will fall by my hands.

Today I made it back to town, or at least what is left of it.  Survivors are still there, but afraid to leave their houses.  At least there are still others alive.

My head hurts.

Why are we being beset by this monster, is it possible that we are sinners?  How did this monster appear in the first place?  Did it cause this disease that spreads and kills it touches?  Am I next?

I HAVE THE ANSWER.  THIS IS NOT A DISEASE.  THIS IS NOT A MESSAGE FROM GOD.  THIS IS HELL.  THE SKULLS THEY CALL TO ME.

AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH

Four.  Four more and then we can be freed.

A cure.  The hill.  It all makes sense now.  I can see everything clearly.

God has spoken to me, for I am his last disciple.  A sacrifice is needed.

An angel came to me last night.  I was told that I will be repaid for being a devout disciple of God, but only if I give up my research.  What do I do?

Are there even four more left, will I have to spread this plague to cure it?  Four more skulls and then we can all be freed from this Hell.

A cure needs a high place, higher than a house.  The center of town should work just fine.

The skulls are what will lead us to salvation.  A monster’s meal but also its demise.

You’ve killed the monstrosity that haunts this town.  However, where did the monster come from?  Are there any more, or is this just one-time event?  At least a cure exists for any future breakouts.
